# education-and-diabetes-rates

Increasing diabetes rates are a problem of growing concern in the United States and worldwide.  The health complications caused by diabetes are complicated, costly, and can be deadly.  Rising healthcare costs in the United States have encouraged many healthcare organizations (HCOs) to begin promoting “preventative care”, taking measures to prevent diseases instead of waiting for diseases to develop and treating them, in order to avoid these preventable and costly diseases.  In addition to reducing costs, preventative care has also been shown to reduce mortality rates and produce overall healthier patients.  Over 30 million people in the United States have been diagnosed with diabetes, and over 90 percent of that group has the largely preventable type 2 diabetes.  Additionally, 84 million other Americans have prediabetes, a condition that can develop into type 2 diabetes if untreated.  In order to thwart the disease that costs the US $245 billion a year, the populations that are most susceptible to diabetes need to be identified and educated.  Relevant literature frequently cites education to be statistically significant when analyzing diabetes rates.  Using data from the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey, education and several other casual factors of diabetes have been identified and their relationships with diabetes have been analyzed through regression analysis in order to target at risk populations and outline tactics to educate those in dire need of preventative care.   

The purpose of this project is to show the dramatic and preventable effects of diabetes.  We need to halt this chronic disease at a young age by identifying target populations that are more susceptible to this preventable disease.  I hope that this project can show the importance of both preventative care as well as treatment, to both help create a healthier America, while also dramatically reducing healthcare expenditures and hopefully refocusing that money on diseases that are out of a patient’s control.  
